Section 1 - UNDERSTANDING THE INTERFACE

Chapter 01 - First encounters
A quick look over some questions that people new to Blender might have. For example what's with the cube? Left clicking moves a crosshair? And also a quick look at customizing.

Chapter 02 - Navigation
Getting to grips with navigating around objects in the 3D View, as well as shortcuts for switching camera modes.

Chapter 03 - Layout Customizing
How to change the window layouts, resize and reconfigure them in any arrangement that you want.

Chapter 04 - User Preference Changes
Some preferences recommended to be changed for this and other projects. Autodepth, Autoperspective, Layers Addon, VBO’s, what they do and how they improve the initial setup.


Section 2 - 3D VIEW

Chapter 01 - Menus, Modes and Display
Exploring the contents of the first section of the headerbar in the 3dView.

Chapter 02 - Pivot Point and 3d Manipulator
More exploration of the 3d view's headerbar. A more detailed look at moving and manipulating objects.

Chapter 03 - Layers and Snapping
Finishing up on the contents of the headerbar. Also including proportional editing and open GL rendering.


Section 3 - MODELING

Chapter 01 - Mesh Data, Object Data
Getting to grips with some fundamentals on how Blender controls and organizes Mesh and Object data.

Chapter 02 - Object Tools
Manipulating your assets at an object level. Joining and separating objects, a quick look at parent and child relationships and many more tips. Also includes a quick primer on the key shortcut menus in preparation of editing at the Mesh level. 

Chapter 03 - Mesh Tools - Extrude
A quick look at the most common mesh editing tools, in this chapter we'll get a feel for the extrude tool.

Chapter 04 - Mesh Tools - Bevel
A quick look at another common mesh editing tool - the bevel tool.

Chapter 05 - Mesh Tools - Subdivide
Another quick look at a common mesh editing concept - subdividing the mesh. Using subdivide to connect edges and create randomness.

Chapter 06 - Mesh Tools - Working With Loops
How to remove edges without destroying the connecting faces, filling holes, general loop selection and a look at adding loops and edge loop sliding.

Chapter 07 - Mesh Tools - Vertex Connect
How to connect vertices together while maintaining correct geometry. Also looks at a common modeling error and how to clean it up. 

Chapter 08 - Mesh Tools - Inset
A brief look over the inset options another very useful and frequently reached for mesh editing tool. 

Chapter 09 - Mesh Tools - Merging
How to combine vertices and remove unrequired geometry.

Chapter 10 - Mesh Tools - Knife Tool
A brief look at the most common ways to use the knife tool. 


Section 4 - MODELING A GAME ASSET

Chapter 01 - Ref Images & Traffic Cone Blockout
How to setup background images to use as reference. Also includes the basic blockout for the traffic cone.

Chapter 02 - Traffic Cone Modeling
Using the mesh editing tools in a practical example to complete the traffic cone asset.

Chapter 03 - Normal Editing - Smooth/Hard Edges
A look over how to control the smoothing in edges and faces.

Chapter 04 - High Res Traffic Cone
A look at how to use modifiers to non-destructively build up a high resolution version of the cone model.

Chapter 05 - Camera Modeling
Another opportunity to explore Blender's modeling tools to create a camera model.

Chapter 06 - Modeling With Curves
Using a curve to create a cable to connect the camera to the base of the cone. 

Chapter 07 - Finishing The Camera Model
More modeling techniques and tools to quickly finish up the camera model.

Chapter 08 - Removing NGons
How to use the select tools to easily find NGons and how to resolve them.

Chapter 09 - Hi Res Lens And Ribbed Cable
Creating the high resolution Camera Lens object and ribbed cabling ready for baking later on. Includes another look at non-destructive modeling with modifiers. 

Chapter 10 - Organizing And Naming Objects
Moving objects between layers and giving descriptive names to the layers with the Layer Management addon. Also several ways to rename your objects. 

Section 5 - UV’S

Chapter 01 - UV’s Overview
A look over several potential UV creating workflows in Blender.

Chapter 02 - Mirror Modifier
Preparing the models for use with the mirror modifier. 

Chapter 03 - UV Unwrapping The Base
A practical example of uv unwrapping by starting with the traffic cone base. 

Chapter 04 - UV Unwrapping The Cable
More uv techniques explored while unwrapping the cable.

Chapter 05 - UV Unwrapping The Cone
Further practical examples of how to unwrap objects in Blender.

Chapter 06 - UV Final Layout
How to create the final UV layout for all the separate objects intended to use the same image texture.


Section 6 - BAKING

Chapter 01 - Baking Setup And Creating Images
How to create images in Blender and how to then use them in solid shading mode. Then how to get setup and ready to start baking to those images. 

Chapter 02 - Baking Ambient Occlusion
How to bake low resolution objects and avoiding errors. How to bake from high resolution objects and how to change the quality of the occlusion bake. 

Chapter 03 - Baking Normal Maps
How to bake normal maps and correctly view the results. 

Chapter 04 - Creating The Base Color Materials
How to assign and work with multiple materials on a single object.

Chapter 05 - Baking The Base Color
Baking all the assigned materials into one base texture.

Chapter 06 - Setting Up A Complete Material
Layering up all the baked textures into one material.

Chapter 07 - Cord Baking And Multiple UV Sets
More high resolution baking and dealing with multiple uv sets. 

Chapter 08 - Baking The Camera Lens
Finishing up by baking out the necessary maps for the camera lens.


Section 7 - 3D PAINTING

Chapter 01 - 3D Painting Setup
How to get started really easily with 3D painting in Blender. Then a more detailed look at setting up ready to 3D paint on the traffic cone game asset.

Chapter 02 - Painting A Vertical Gradient
Taking a look at the fill brush, gradients and issues with painting in the orthographic view.

Chapter 03 - Multi Layered Painting
Setting up and painting in a multi-layered setting. Creating your own brush tip shapes and how to erase without affecting underlying layers both in 2D and 3D.

Chapter 04 - Worn Edges With Cavity Masking
Using the cavity masking option to isolate exposed edges and paint a worn chipped feel over those areas.

Chapter 05 - Baking All Layers Down To 1
Creating the final baked images aligning everything into 1 uv map, 1 diffuse texture and 1 normal map.


Section 8 - IMPORTING AND EXPORTING

Chapter 01 - Importing A TF2 Character
A look at a Team Fortress 2 specific addon to help import one of the characters that can be used for finalizing the asset.

Chapter 02 - Rigging And Placing The Asset
Placing the 'hat' traffic cone asset onto the character and parenting to the rig. 

Chapter 03 - LOD Creation
The last modeling task - clean mesh reduction to create an even lower resolution version of the game asset.

Chapter 04 - Exporting As OBJ
A quick and simple process of exporting the game asset and the lower resolution LOD asset out as OBJ files.

Chapter 05 - Importing Into Team Fortress 2
Finishing up by getting the game asset into the Team Fortress 2 game engine. 
